## JCC GameDesign Summer Session
### Using Python, and Pygame to create, edit, and hack around on video games

#### Kids folders not yet uploaded

This week at JCC we wanted to give the kids a look at a couple different ways to approach creating computer, and mobile games. We started the week off with an iPad app called HyperPad which is a great introduction to programming, as well as game design. Starting out with a piece of paper, and a pencil we talked about what games good levels, and what makes bad levels. Going over some of the basic elements that the kids could think about when designing their levels, and games. Once they had finished designing their levels we started up the iPads and explored HyerPad. The cool thing about HyerPad is that everything you put onto your scene is programmable in some shape or form. They quickly realize that if they want the lava to do harm to their character they have to program the lava block to do that. Thankfully we can program one lava block, and than duplicate that one and the behaviors carry over! After working on their levels we started to look into adding a character to the scene and customizing how he would react to the different elements in the level. From there it was getting the score to add up correctly, and adding a health bar to track health. Working on your level transitions, adding in the game over behaviors, and beta testing were the last steps to developing our games. My hope with this exercise was to give the kids an idea of the process for designing, and creating a video game. As well as have an easy to use, flexiable platform to really get creative. HyerPad is unfortunately only available for iOS devices. And is located in the Apple app store for those curious.

After exploring HyerPad we moved onto learning about the Python programming language and how it could be used to develope games. Alongside Python we were using the Pygame library. I started out with going over the basics of a programming language, and teaching the kids some the vocabulary and logic. From there we moved into looking at specific Python syntax, and how various things were programmed. After getting some practice, and experimenting it was time to work on our first game Snake. The idea was for the kids to type in the various parts that I felt were the most relevant to the game and than we would go over them on the whiteboard. Once the children understood what the syntax was doing, they were able to explore changing things around and than seeing what that produced. After we had went through a couple games the kid were able to notice the things that were similar to all games. You would see variables being declared with the same name for example FPS, colors, and controls. As well as seeing the different conditionals, and boolean logic that is used. It was really awesome to see what the kids would come up with, and how they would change the games to do the things they wanted, or do something completely unexpectedly funny.

I hope the kids enjoyed the week, and had fun! As well as took away some new found programming, and video game design knowledge. Our programming environment was using Chromebooks alongside Crouton to get a full install of Ubuntu running. And to edit text we used Geany. All of our Python programming was done in ver 2.6. I've uploaded all of the games to the Games folder. In there you should find the games with source files, and our activity. Another great place to find games is on the Pygame website, as well as on Github. There are lots of games out there that you can play around with, and look at the source code. 

If you have any questions please don't hesitate reaching out! 


[HyperPad](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/hyperpad-create-interactive-games-apps-prototypes/id886106438?mt=8)

[Python](https://www.python.org/)

[Pygame](http://www.pygame.org/)
